# Release Notes for PROSE SDK versions 3.x

## [Release 3.2.0](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis/3.2.0) -- 2017/08/16

### New Features

- A new Transformation.Tree DSL which may be used in scenarios such as code transformation/refactoring.
- Transformation.Text improvements to date/time and number handling:
    - European date/time and number formats
    - Day of meek in month support (like 3rd monday in April, but note that specifying numbers as
      ordinals like 3rd instead of 3 is not yet supported)
    - Lowercase am/pm in times
- Matching.Text now has the ability to generate representative examples and a regex description for each cluster.

### Bug fixes / Enhancements

- New Compound.Split streaming interface for running split programs on large files and the ability to specify a fill
  strategy for filling values in non-rectangular tables.
- Fixes for advanced scenarios related to creating new DSLs:
    - A fix for a long-standing bug related to learning cache lookups in recursive grammars.
    - A two-pass mode for dslc which allows strongly-typed program-fragment builders to be used in all code.
- Extraction.Json no longer treats bare strings/numbers as valid json, so it won't learn a no-op program for them.
- Miscellaneous correctness and performance improvements.

## [Release 3.1.3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis/3.1.3) -- 2017/07/18

### Bug fixes / Enhancements

- Transformation.Text date/time support has been fixed to prefer ranges over rounding in some key cases.
- A number of general stability and performance improvements.

## [Release 3.0.0](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis/3.0.0) -- 2017/06/28

*This release fixes the issues using the nuget packages in VS2015 and VS2017 (when using old-style packages.config).*

### Breaking Changes

- De-serializing programs in human readable format is removed.  Human readable was never a reliable serialization format
  (although it is nice for debugging purposes) because it does not contain enough information to guarantee backward
  compatibility. We have removed de-serialization support to encourage the use of the XML serialization format.  This
  also means that the ANTLR runtime dependency has been removed from our core nuget package.
- The paraphrasing library is removed.  Transformation.Text still contains its separate support for the explanations
  feature. In effect this is an implementation detail, but consumers may need to remove any DLL references they had to
  Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis.Paraphrasing.
- Moved Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis.Compiler.dll from the main nuget package to the compiler package.  Previously the
  compiler package just contained the dslc.exe tool for compiling a grammar into source code so that it can be built
  into a DSL's DLL, now it also contains the DLL which is used for runtime parsing of grammar files.  This means that
  the core package which is all you need if you are consuming prebuilt DSLs no longer has a dependency on ANTLR4.Runtime
  (but the compiler package does have that dependency).
- The netstandard1.6 libraries are now built for CoreClr 1.1.
- The SDK now depends on System.Collections.Immutable version 1.3.0 (up from 1.2.0) and NewtonSoft.Json version 8.0.3
  (up from 8.0.2).
- All uses of Tuple have been replaced with ValueTuple.
- Extraction.Json:
    - No longer automatically treats arrays as objects.  Instead clients are expected to use constraints to control how
      arrays are flattened.  Default is for arrays to turn into rows, but there is a new constraint which allows
      flattening them into columns.

### Bug fixes / Enhancements

- Detection.DataType is a new DLL added to the package which when given a series of strings can detect the datatypes
  those string values represent (ie. number, date, etc.).
- Extraction.Json:
    - Fixed case where a single-line JSON was misidentified as NDJSON.
- Transformation.Text:
    - Rounding times.
    - Rounding of scaled numbers.
    - DayOfYear (1-366) format for dates.
    - Performance improvements.
    - Stability fixes.
- Split.Text
    - Field detection, expressiveness and error handling improvements.
    - Performance improvements (especially for large string sizes).
- Grammar files now support an annotation to indicate that a rule is deprecated (but kept in the grammar to allow
  deserialization of programs learned on older versions).
