# Release Notes for PROSE SDK versions 4.x

## [Release 4.0.0](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis/4.0.0) -- 2017/09/15

### Breaking Changes

- State.Create method has been split into two versions: CreateForLearning and CreateForExecution.  The CreateForLearning
  version can be slower but is necessary (as you might imagine from the name) when the state is going to be used for
  learning programs as opposed to just executing programs that were previously learned.
- Moved CoreClr to .netstandard 2.0--as part of this change upgraded some dependencies:
    - System.ValueTuple 4.4.0 (up from 4.3.1)
    - Newtonsoft.Json 10.03 (up from 8.0.2)
    - Plus the move to .netstandard 2.0 and corresponding upgrade to related corefx packages (mostly moving to version
      4.4.0)

### New Features

- A new API has been added for working with significant inputs which enables quick retrieval of some significant inputs
  and then async calculation and later retrieval of additional significant inputs as they become available.
- Matching.Text now exposes the DescriptionTokens property to enable rich-text rendering of pattern descriptions.

### Bug fixes / Enhancements

- Our nuget package should now work properly in both desktop .net and net core projects.
- Compound.Split has a new constraint for specifying column delimiters.
- Transformation.Text now supports the ISO week number format (eg. date is in week #32 of the year).
- Better handline of empty json strings.
- Robustness improvements for Split.Text--better handle input that is json with mixed delimiters as well as redundant
  examples.
- Miscellaneous perf and correctness fixes

