# Release Notes for PROSE SDK versions 5.x

## Release 5.1.0 -- 2018/02/07

### Breaking Changes

- The packaging of PROSE functionality has been significantly refactored both to reduce the number of DLLs and
  dependencies and to allow fine-grained selection of the functionality to be included in a consuming application.
    - There is only one DLL per DSL plus one shared functionality DLL (Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis.Common.dll which
      replaces a variety of support DLLs used previously including Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis.dll,
      Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis.Utils.dll, Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis.Learning.dll and
      Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis.Wrangling.dll).
    - Each DSL is available in its own separate nuget package while the full SDK may still be referenced through the
      single package Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis which depends on all the other DSL nuget packages.
    - Removed dependencies on System.ValueTuple and System.Interactive.
- Tools for compling DSL grammars:
    - The tool `dslc.exe` has been renamed and turned into a dotnet CLI tool which may be executed with the command 
      `dotnet dslc`.
    - A pair of new nuget packages (Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis.Dslc and Microsoft.ProgramSynthesis.DslcTargets) now
      make it possible to compile a PROSE grammar in a new-style csproj file just by adding two lines to the csproj file
      and including the grammar file in the directory with the project.  This works with both .Net Core and .Net Desktop
      projects.  You can see this in action in our updated samples.  [This csproj, for instance.](
      https://github.com/Microsoft/prose/blob/master/ProgramSynthesis/ProseSample.Substrings/ProseSample.Substrings.csproj)
    - The #reference directive in the grammar has been removed—instead references should be passed as commandline
      arguments.
- For authors of custom DSLs:
    - RuleLearners now return Optional<ProgramSet> rather than ProgramSet.  This allows unambiguous handling of the
      difference between a rule learner not applying and it applying but returning a null or empty set of results.
- Extraction.Json:
    - Signature of programs is now `Program<string, ITable<string>>` (meaning output is just a flat table not a tree).
    - Other general cleanup/simplification of the API.
- The Split.File DSL has been removed and all of its capabilities have been merged into Compound.Split which now
  produces programs that will split a file into rows and then split each of those rows into columns.

- Transformation.Text:
    - IIndexableRow public interface: Previously methods operated on “object” types and casts were required to map to
      the actual type in use.  Now they accept strings directly (the only type currently in use) and we will add
      overloads for other types when supported in the future.  So all types can be supported without needing
      inefficient cast operations.
    - AutoComplete now uses IRow instead of IEnumerable<string> for input.

### New Features

- Extraction.Web is a new DSL for extracting structured data from HTML pages.
    - Can extract fields, sequences or tables given examples of specific web regions or text strings.
    - Integrates with Transformation.Text so the resulting extraction programs can also perform simple transformations
      on the data such as extracting substrings
    - Uses CSS selectors to perform extraction based on the full set of queues available in the document including
      formatting.
    - Has a concept of externally pluggable entity detectors which may be supplied by the consumer and can detect
      arbitrary entities in a text string (eg. an EntityDetecter might be written which detects instances of city
      names by consulting an external database).
- Translation of learned programs to Java so that they can be executed on the JVM has been added to several DSLs
  including:
    - Transformation.Text
    - Split.Text
    - Extraction.Json

### Bug Fixes / Enhancements

- Compound.Split:
    - Considers more lines when determining the column delimiter.
    - Examines header of file for additional clues to find delimiters.
    - Skips very sparse data rows (likely comment rows).
    - Now supports gathering telemetry through the `ILogger` interface.
- Conditionals:
    - DSL now has IsNull and IsWhiteSpace predicates which improve clustering of conditional program cases.
- Extraction.Json:
    - Supports streaming execution.
    - Can parse single line json documents with extra prefix and/or suffix characters.
- Matching.Text:
    - A new, greatly improved clustering algorithm.
    - Improved accurancy of reported fraction for each pattern (ie. the percentage of the data which that pattern
      matches).
      Previously it was inaccurate when duplicates were present.
    - Better regex generation.
    - Perf improvements.
- Split.Text:
    - Now supports gathering telemetry through the `ILogger` interface.
- Transformation.Json:
    - Automatic conversion of strings to objects and vice versa.
    - Better support for text transformation of json values.
    - Support for text transformation output from multiple json values (allowing merging of multiple values into a
      single string output value, etc.).
- Transformation.Text:
    - Avoids using the concat operator for programs learned from examples where the entire input appears in the
      output.
    - Bug fixed related to examples with explicit null output.
    - Performance improvements to learning times.
    - A simpler API for entity extraction from a column profile (not just through the full derived column mechanism).
    - Supports transforming dates into the week of the year, and this is preferred to week of month when the examples
      are ambiguous.
- Transformation.Tree:
    - Bug is fixed in sequence node synthesis.
    - Previously could not learn an Order By transformation when there isn't an alias.
- Concurrency:
    - It is now possible to execute two calls to synthesize programs on different threads in parallel.

- The `LearnTopK` method now takes an optional `IFeature` parameter which may be used to rank programs using a different
  feature than the default ranking score.

- Many other general performance and stability fixes.
